Problem 01:
Write a C++ program that displays a menu to the user to choose among four
arithmetic operations, gets the operands from the user and finally call the relevant
functions to perform that particular operation. After the display of the results.
Problem 02:
Write a program that displays the following menu:
Geometry Calculator
1. Calculate the Area of a Circle
2. Calculate the Area of a Rectangle
3. Calculate the Area of a Triangle
4. Quit
Enter your choice (1-4):
If the user enters 1, the program should ask for the radius of the circle and then
display its area (use functions for each category). Use the following formula:
A = πr2
Use 3.14159 for π and the radius of the circle for r.
 If the user enters 2, the program should ask for the length and width of the
rectangle and then display the rectangles area. Use the following formula:
area = length * width
 If the user enters 3 the program should ask for the length of the triangle base
and its height, and then display its area. Use the following formula:
area = base * height * .5
 If the user enters 4, the program should end displaying a message.
Input Validation: Display an error message if the user enters a number outside the
range of 1 through 4 when selecting an item from the menu. Do not accept
negative values for the circles radius, the rectangles length or width, or the
triangles base or height.

Problem 03:
A large company pays its salespeople on a commission basis. The salespeople each
receive Rs. 2,000 per week plus 9% of their gross sales for that week. For example,
a salesperson who sells Rs. 50,000 worth of chemicals in a week receives Rs. 2,000
plus 9% of Rs. 50,000, or a total of Rs. 6500. Develop the algorithm of the program
that input salesperson’s gross sales for last week and calculates and displays that
salesperson’s earnings.
Problem 04:
Assume that a customer wants to have a standard size picture and does not want to
go to professional studio. Instead he goes to road side photo booth. The machine
shows the following menu on the screen:
• Colored Photograph
• Black & White Photograph
• Sketch
The program should be made with if / else structure. Also, use functions for each
category of the picture. The user should be able to enter the category, type and
quantity of the photograph he / she wants. The program should be able to calculate
the total amount which needs to be paid by the customer. One the menu has been
selected, further options can be selected:
Colored Photograph:
• Passport Size Photograph for Rs. 10/-
• 6’ x 4’ Photograph for Rs. 30/-
• 5’ x 11 Photograph for Rs. 50/-
Black & White Photograph:
• Passport Size Photograph for Rs. 12/-
• 6’ x 4’ Photograph for Rs. 35/-
• 5’ x 11’ Photograph for Rs. 60/-
Sketch:

• Passport Size Photograph for Rs. 15/-
• 6’ x 4’ Photograph for Rs. 40/-
• 5’ x 11’ Photograph for Rs. 80/-
Make a program which can take the user input and can calculate the total amount to
be inserted in the machine.
